# arduino-indoor-weatherstation

<h2>Micah Simmerman</h2>

<h2>CSPB-3112, Professional Development Showcase</h2>

Title: Arduino Indoor Weather Station 

The aim of my project will be to create a system to monitor my 4X4 grow tent (which currently contains four potted plants and two hydroponic systems) while I am away on vacation. The goal is integrate several arduino sensors (i.e., those for temperature, pH, and total dissolved solids, AKA &#34;TDS&#34;) on a single-board computer and stream this data to a laptop or cellular device via bluetooth and/or wifi transceiver. This project will investigate concepts relevant to the internet of things (IOT), with a focus on real-time data routing and network drivers.

Vision Statement: My goals for this project are: 1.) Learn the basics of Arduino sensors and network hardware. 2.) Develop hands-on experience with IOT networks and the development of application-driven devices. 3.) Gain experience with object oriented programming in C&#43;&#43;; device integration and server programming in Python. 3.) Extend my knowledge of XML data formatting and web-development using HTML/CSS/JavaScript.

Motivation: My motivation for completing this project is to begin a long-term research and development project, relevant to my hobbies and interests. My hope is that by orienting a portfolio around my personal interests, I will be more likely to continue the project and develop this portfolio further in the future.

Project Goals: 1.) Assemble an Arduino device to monitor the pH, TDS, temperature, humidity, etc. of a 4x4 indoor garden. 2.) Install IOT network modules and access these devices remotely. 3.) Develop a simple website to host the livestream data and render measurements in an XML table. 4.) Monitor live-stream data generated by IOT devices using a laptop or cell phone.

Risks: This project requires Arduino hardware, a technical background in analytical sensors and network devices, and some time troubleshooting physical components as well as software. I have limited experience with electrical wiring, and I am unfamiliar with the Arduino native development language (modified C&#43;&#43;, from what I understand). This will be my first Arduino project.

Mitigation Strategies: In addition to the sensors, wires, and board components needed to make the transceiver device, I purchased an Arduino &#34;Project Board&#34; that comes with a highly-recommended tutorial. There are YouTube tutorials on how to creating a pH meter from Arduino parts, and I found a tutorial about Arduino Bluetooth. 

Project Assessments: The end goal will be to &#34;spin up&#34; a simple xhtml webpage that displays real-time measurements collected from the extended transceiver, possibly refreshing these values ever 20 minutes or so. This way, I can monitor my plants from anywhere there is an internet connection.

Project Link: https://micah614.github.io/arduino-indoor-weatherstation/
